Donda is the tenth studio album by American rapper Kanye West, released through GOOD Music on August 29, 2021, with distribution handled by Def Jam Recordings. It is West's final album for Def Jam, as he fulfilled his contract with the label with this album.[1] West recorded much of the material at multiple locations in the summer of 2021, including Bighorn Mountain Ranch in Wyoming and Mercedes-Benz Stadium in Atlanta. It features guest vocals from the Sunday Service Choir, Jay-Z, Playboi Carti, Lil Baby, the Weeknd, Vory, Kid Cudi, DaBaby, Baby Keem, and Marilyn Manson, among various others; vocals from Chris Brown were also included prior to the album being updated. West, BoogzDaBeast, Dem Jointz, Mike Dean, and Ojivolta primarily helmed its production.  Donda was initially set for release in July 2020 under the title of God's Country, but experienced multiple delays. The album's style has been described variously as hip hop, gospel, progressive rap, and pop, and incorporates elements of trap and drill. It is both minimalist and maximalist, with darker lyrical content and the reduced use of drums in comparison to West's prior efforts. Themes explored include religion, Kanye's divorce from Kim Kardashian, and Donda West, whose forename is used for the title.  Upon its release, Kanye West accused Universal Music Group of having released Donda without his approval, which the label denied. "Hurricane" was released as the lead single in September 2021, and was followed by both "Believe What I Say" and "Off the Grid" in November. The album received mixed reviews from music critics, who were mostly divided towards its cohesiveness. Some noted an improvement from West's previous work and praised the composition, though numerous reviewers criticized the long runtime. Donda was a nominee for both Album of the Year and Best Rap Album at the 64th Grammy Awards, while "Jail" and "Hurricane" both won for Best Rap Song and Best Melodic Rap Performance, respectively.  Donda initially scored the most first-day streams for an album in 2021 on both Apple Music and Spotify. It stood as West's 10th consecutive chart-topper on the US Billboard 200, tying the record set by Eminem. It reached the summit in 18 other regions, including Australia, France, and the United Kingdom, becoming West's first number-one album in the second country. The album has been certified platinum in the United States by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), alongside being awarded the certification and a gold one in Canada and New Zealand by Music Canada (MC) and Recorded Music NZ (RMNZ), respectively. The appearances from DaBaby and Marilyn Manson created controversy amongst audiences as a result of their separate allegations of homophobia and sexual abuse. In October 2021, the Donda Stem Player was issued, allowing users to remix the songs and adding new ones, while a deluxe edition was released on November 14.